now the first thing you need is a piece
of sushi grade fatty tuna and when you
go to the meat market be sure to ask for
sushi grade seafood that's really
important if you don't get that you can
really risk making yourself or someone
else sick so be sure to double-check
with the butcher behind the counter if
it is seriously great now our lovely
model here is slicing it nice and thin
right from the start using our sashimi
Hojo and sashimi means basically raw
fish and Hojo is the Japanese word for
knife that really does make all the
difference in the world having a nice
sharp knife to work with especially when
you're working with excellent cuts of
fish like we have today so we sliced
horizontally or untie vertically and now
we're going back over and trying to get
really really small tiny pieces we're
going for not quite ground hamburger
consistency here because as you know for
those of you fans out there from spicy
tuna rolls like myself you know we get
the really small pieces of fish mixed up
with the spicy tuna sauce so that's what
we're doing right now is is getting our
sashimi grade or sushi grade piece of
fish to those little chunks to mix in
with a spicy tuna sauce now the Japanese
technique here is called tataki and
that's what you're witnessing right now
I guess chopped is a pretty close
translation in English for that it
certainly is a little bit different
technique but very similar nonetheless
and for those of you really interested
in Japanese culture and things like that
you'll notice that on the Hojo are knife
if you will there's some engravings on
the side and this knife is from Seki and
that's where they originally made all of
the ninja swords and right now that's a
major hub for Japanese cutley as well me
and my family visited there that's where
they make some very fine surgical knives
as well and actually feather brand who
makes shaving things for men his base
there as well some excellent knives
anything with a blade that comes out of
that city is just ridiculously sharp
and that's the knife that we're using
today as well and I can't stress enough
they're having a nice sharp knife
working with these kinds of meats really
makes all the difference in the world
and picture's worth a thousand words so
my has been demonstrating the tataki
method here certainly be careful with
your fingers you don't want to cut
yourself and just going back and forth
over the meat like so to get it to the
almost hamburger consistency is what
we're aiming for and I think we're
getting pretty close you know just going
back and forth back and forth over the
meat is really what you need to do so
there we are really bunching it together
and there we go
probably one more pass possibly to to
get us there and there we go
so you see took a couple minutes but
that's the consistent we want now that
we know that were at that point one mix
in our spicy tuna sauce if you don't
know how to make this sauce please see
our video we explain exactly how to mix
it together for you guys out there now
it gets a little trick you'll notice my
is kind of slicing the meat with a spoon
to mix in the spicy tuna sauce when you
get the meat in this consistency it's
not exactly the easiest to mix and
sauces with but you just kind of rub it
together and mix it around it it does
take a couple minutes but definitely you
want to be gentle with your meat at this
point even though we've just chopped it
up really really small pieces but you
know you don't want to mash it any more
than that so just be gentle with it mix
it around it might take a couple minutes
but you can certainly get it to where
you want it to be and there's no hard
and fast rules on your ratios here it's
whatever flavor you want that's how much
of the spicy tuna sauce you mix in
whatever you think meets your spiciness
taste now we also have the avocado
slices that we're going to include well
so here we have an avocado that we've
already sliced in half
here you can just see with the sharp
knife going through the avocado like
butter it really is a pleasure to cut
with those sharp knives so we were
making consistent thin slices from the
avocado if you want to slice
horizontally instead of vertically
that's fine too it really is just
personal preference at that point and
after we slice our avocado we want to be
sure to add a little bit of lemon on top
we don't want our avocado turning brown
in the middle of our sushi roll even
though it tastes fine it really does get
to be rather unappetizing now we're
going to put it on our Maki sushi base
if you don't know how to make the base
here with the rice in the seaweed please
see our Maki sushi video we explain how
to do that in depth and really walk you
through that process so what we're doing
is we're adding the spicy tuna mixture
it's hard to tell from the camera angle
but it is slightly closer to the chef or
a model if you will and you want to
extend it all the way to the edges
that's really important you don't want
to have the orphaned sushi pieces on the
end that don't have any fish in them so
definitely extend it a little bit past
the nori or seaweed if you will and
that's really really important so after
we do that we want to get our avocado
slices and they do have the habit of
sticking together on the plate what we
found after making the videos that
really helps is to add some lemon juice
between the slices and also on the plate
below that helps them slide right off
the plate so you will see how my is
adding the avocado slices they're
slightly at an angle you don't need to
go perfectly horizontal and that's where
you want it that's what you want to look
like before we go ahead and roll the
pieces together
now you grab the bamboo mat lift it over
enough for it to touch the other side of
the sushi and with a firm gripping
motion that's how we really get the
sushi to come together now you don't
want to smash it together you do want to
be firm but I definitely don't want to
just mash all the gradients in the
middle together it really is a fine line
that comes over time a little bit of
practice and I'm sure you can get it
down so we flipped it over again with
the firm gripping motion once again and
the saran wrap sometimes sticks together
but it's not a problem at all and there
we go the last round squeeze it a little
bit more you'll see some of the spicy
tuna coming out the sides
if you squeeze it so hard that all of it
pops out you definitely know you're
gripping too hard but if it does come
out just a little bit like so that's
perfectly normal
and that's what you want it to look like
right there so the next step is to add a
little bit of the sesame seeds on the
side roasted sesame seeds that is and
you'll notice we put it on top enough to
coat lightly and Pat it in just a touch
now next we put on a cutting board and
this is really where the sharp knife
pays off incredible dividends notice
Sarah it's slicing right through and for
those of you who do watch some of our
videos
I want to point out here that we use the
rice cooker for the rice that we used on
the spicy roll tuna here and you'll
notice that it doesn't clump up as bad
when you cut through it you'll notice
that you get nice clean slices the
flavor of the stove type rice comes out
the same but with the rice cooker you
can see that's where you really get
these neat cuts that you can really tell
when you're cutting your sushi rolls in
particular so here we are you know how
thick you want your rolls and things
like that is really just up to personal
preference it's whatever you like I
think we're cutting them a little bit
thinner here but that's because we have
a family and well like to have a lot of
pieces of a lot of different flavored
sushi so when you cut it that's what it
will look like and the next step is to
put it on the plate for display
we use the sushi Gaeta if you want to
put on regular plate from your kitchen
that's perfectly fine
usually it's served with the soap wasabi
and ginger as we have as well but you
take out the pieces for display and
there you go there's your spicy tuna
roll and we hope they turn out as
wonderful in your kitchen as they did
arms these tasted fabulous so thanks for
watching we appreciate likes and
comments and please remember